( phone ringing )
- ( beeps )
- HELLO?
Paul, it's April.
- OH.
- Can I come in
a little early today?
I've been up
all night trying to
finish my final project
and I just don't think
I'll make it to noon.
OH, SURE.
CAN YOU JUST--
JUST HOLD ON
FOR A MOMENT
WHILE I GET MY BOOK.
- UMM--
- No, it's no big deal.
I'll just
see you next week.
NO NO NO NO NO,
IT'S OKAY.
WHEN DID YOU--
WHEN DID YOU WANT
TO COME IN?
How about now?
OKAY.
IT'S NO PROBLEM.
I'LL SEE YOU
IN A BIT THEN, OKAY?
( theme music playing )
THANKS FOR SEEING ME.
I WAS ON MY WAY TO SCHOOL
TO TURN THIS IN--
AND I DON'T KNOW
WHY I DID IT,
BUT I CAME HERE INSTEAD.
THIS IS...
( clears throat )
THE BIG PROJECT
YOU MENTIONED?
WOULD YOU MIND
IF I HAD A LOOK AT IT?
NO, GO AHEAD IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED IN SHIT.
- IT--
- OH.
AH.
OH, THAT'S REALLY COOL.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
A WORLD TRADE CENTER MEMORIAL,
OF COURSE.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN
"OF COURSE"?
BECAUSE GOD FORBID
ANY ARCHITECTURE STUDENT
IN THE COUNTRY GETS ANOTHER
ASSIGNMENT EVER AGAIN.
I'M SORRY.
I'M AN ASSHOLE.
- DON'T LISTEN TO ME.
- NO, I THINK IT'S JUST--
I THINK IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
IT'S REALLY...
EXQUISITELY DONE.
VERY BEAUTIFUL.
I'M SO TIRED.
YOU HAVEN'T BEEN
SLEEPING THIS WEEK?
NO, NOT AT ALL.
BETWEEN MY ANXIETY
AND MY LYMPHOMA
THERE'S JUST NEVER
A GOOD TIME.
THAT WAS SUPPOSED
TO BE A JOKE.
- WAS IT FUNNY?
- I DON'T THINK SO.
YEAH...
NEITHER DO I.
CAN I JUST--
DO YOU MIND?
( sighs )
I TRIED SO HARD
TO SLEEP LAST NIGHT.
IT WAS 2:00 A.M.,
I WAS OUT OF IDEAS
AND MY HANDS WERE
SHAKING SO BADLY.
I WAS AFRAID
I'D WRECK THE WHOLE THING
IF I TRIED
TO KEEP WORKING ON IT,
SO I PUT IT IN THE BOX.
I CHANGED MY SHEETS,
I LIT CANDLES,
PUT ON MUSIC.
IT SOUNDS LIKE I WAS
TRYING TO SEDUCE MYSELF.
( chuckles )
SO DID YOU EVENTUALLY
FALL ASLEEP?
I COULDN'T.
MY HEART WAS RACING
AND IT FELT LIKE--
I DON'T KNOW.
IT FELT LIKE IT WASN'T BLOOD
RUNNING THROUGH MY VEINS,
IT WAS SOMETHING ELSE--
FIRE, POISON.
IT-- I JUST--
I WANTED
TO OPEN MYSELF UP
AND GET IT ALL OUT SOMEHOW--
SLIT MY WRISTS
OR TAKE OFF MY OWN HEAD.
NO, I--
I WOULD NEVER.
DON'T WORRY.
I'M JUST TRYING TO
DESCRIBE HOW IT FELT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE
A TERRIBLE NIGHT.
I CAN'T HAVE
ANOTHER ONE LIKE THAT.
I WILL LOSE MY MIND.
WHEN YOU SAID THAT
THE POISON WAS RUNNING
THROUGH YOUR VEINS,
CAN I TELL YOU WHAT
I THOUGHT OF IMMEDIATELY?
- CHEMO.
- CANCER.
- SAME THING.
- NO, IT ISN'T.
YOU CAN CHOOSE
NOT TO HAVE CHEMO.
OKAY.  TOUCHE.
I HAD THIS THOUGHT
LAST NIGHT--
I JUST KEPT
THINKING IT OVER AND OVER.
IT USED TO HAPPEN TO ME
A LOT WHEN I WAS A KID.
THE SUMMER BEFORE
I WENT TO HIGH SCHOOL,
I GOT THIS SONG
STUCK IN MY HEAD
AND I COULDN'T
GET IT OUT.
I REALLY THOUGHT
I WAS GOING INSANE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK
IT WOULD FEEL LIKE
TO GO INSANE?
LIKE FALLING...
INTO NOTHING.
CAN WE NOT TALK
ABOUT LOSING MY MIND?
WOULD YOU LIKE TO
TELL ME ABOUT THE THOUGHT
THAT YOU HAD LAST NIGHT,
THE ONE THAT YOU COULDN'T
GET OUT OF YOUR HEAD?
I WANTED TO GO HOME.
I REALLY WISHED
I COULD GO HOME.
AND THEN I THOUGHT
"YOU CAN'T GO HOME.
YOUR HOME IS
SO LONG AGO
AND SO FAR AWAY."
AND THEN
I JUST KEPT THINKING
"YOUR HOME IS
SO LONG AGO
AND SO FAR AWAY.
YOUR HOME IS
SO LONG AGO
AND SO FAR AWAY."
AND THIS HOME
THAT YOU'RE--
THAT YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT,
WHERE IS IT?
OR WAS IT?
CAN I--
CAN I TELL YOU
IN A MOMENT?
I MEAN...
CAN I JUST--
I JUST NEED TO CLOSE
MY EYES FOR A SECOND.
I'M SO TIRED.
WHAT TIME IS IT?
- 8:00.
- REALLY? ALREADY?
WELL, IT'S...
7:59 ACTUALLY.
PERFECT.
COULD YOU--
COULD YOU WAKE ME
AT 8:00.
WOULD YOU MIND?
SURE.
APRIL.
( whispers )
APRIL, WAKE UP.
WAKE UP, APRIL.
APRIL.
APRIL, WAKE UP.
WHAT TIME IS IT?
IT'S 8:00.
GOOD.
IT'S OVER.
THIS PROJECT WAS
DUE YESTERDAY
BUT MY PROFESSOR SAID
WE HAD UNTIL
8:00 IN THE MORNING
TO TURN IT IN.
( breathing heavily )
IT WAS HIDEOUS.
IT LOOKS BETTER NOW.
PAUL:
WHY DO YOU SAY THAT?
APRIL:
IT DIDN'T WORK AT ALL.
THE DIMENSIONS
WERE ALL OFF.
I RELIED TOO MUCH
ON NEGATIVE SPACE.
IT WAS JUST
SITTING THERE.
I COULDN'T
MAKE IT SOAR.
I HAVE TO
TELL YOU, IT'S--
IT'S VERY HARD
TO SEE YOU DESTROY
YOUR OWN WORK.
I DID--
I DID FALL ASLEEP
LAST NIGHT.
I JUST REMEMBERED
A DREAM I HAD.
I WAS ON TOP OF THE MODEL,
BUT IT WAS LIFE-SIZE,
AND I FELL.
DO YOU EVER GET THOSE?
FALLING DREAMS?
SURE.
I GET THOSE
ALL THE TIME.
AND HOW DO YOU FEEL
WHEN YOU WAKE UP?
I DON'T KNOW.
MY HEART IS POUNDING,
AND I FEEL LIKE--
I DON'T EVEN KNOW
HOW TO DESCRIBE IT.
IT'S--
IT'S A KIND OF JOY.
SO, DIFFERENT FROM
FALLING INTO NOTHING?
- YEAH.
- SO FALLING IS SOMETHING
THAT YOU'RE AFRAID OF
AND YET YOU'RE ATTRACTED
TO IT AT THE SAME TIME.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
WHEN YOU'RE AWAKE,
YOU WORK SO HARD TO KEEP
EVERYBODY AND EVERYTHING
UNDER YOUR CONTROL,
SO IN YOUR DREAMS
IT MAKES SENSE THAT
YOU FIND YOURSELF
FINALLY FALLING,
RELEASING EVERYTHING,
LETTING EVERYTHING GO,
BECAUSE IT'S A KIND
OF FANTASY FOR YOU.
WHY-- WHY ARE
YOU TELLING ME THAT?
IS THAT SUPPOSED
TO HELP ME?
IT'LL ONLY HELP YOU
IF IT RINGS TRUE.
- IF IT DOESN'T--
- BUT IT'S IN MY HEAD NOW.
YOU PUT IT IN MY HEAD.
NOW I HAVE TO THINK ABOUT IT.
LIKE THAT THOUGHT
THAT YOU HAD LAST NIGHT.
- WHAT?
- YOU STARTED THINKING
ABOUT SOMETHING
AND YOU CAN'T STOP.
YOUR THOUGHTS
BECOME OBSESSIVE.
DON'T SAY THAT.
YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN
ON A SUBWAY CAR
THAT BREAKS DOWN
AND THERE'S SOME GUY--
SOME SHY-LOOKING KID
WHO STARTS REPEATING
SOMETHING TO HIMSELF
OVER AND OVER, LIKE,
"7:15, 59th AND LEX.
7:15, 59th AND LEX,"
OVER AND OVER,
LOUDER AND LOUDER
UNTIL JUST SAYING
THE WORDS ISN'T ENOUGH
AND HE STARTS
HITTING HIMSELF
AND THRASHING AROUND
AND FINALLY HAS TO BE
SUBDUED AND TRANQUILIZED?
THAT IS WHAT
IT MEANS TO HAVE
OBSESSIVE THOUGHTS.
I JUST LIKE THINKING
THINGS THROUGH.
YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT YOUR BROTHER.
I'VE NOTICED THAT
YOU'RE CONSTANTLY
TRYING TO FEEL
WHAT HE FEELS.
WELL, HE CAN'T DESCRIBE
HOW HE FEELS,
SO HE NEEDS SOMEONE
TO INTERPRET IT FOR HIM.
YOUR EMPATHY IS--
IT'S ADMIRABLE, APRIL.
BUT IT CAN BE
REALLY DRAINING
TRYING TO FEEL
EVERYONE ELSE'S FEELINGS
AS WELL AS YOUR OWN.
MAYBE INSTEAD
OF YOUR OWN.
I DON'T--
I'M SORRY
FOR LOSING MY TEMPER.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO
APOLOGIZE TO ME.
I DID FALL OUT
OF A BUILDING ONCE.
WHEN?
WE WERE
ON VACATION IN MIAMI.
I WAS ONLY 10.
MY MOTHER IS
OBSESSED WITH CUBA--
CUBAN MUSIC,
CUBAN FOOD,
CUBAN CULTURE.
ANYWAY,
WE WERE DOWN THERE
WITHOUT MY BROTHER.
WE LEFT HIM--
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER,
I THINK--
WITH MY GRANDPARENTS;
JUST ME AND MY FOLKS.
I REMEMBER
THIS ONE NIGHT
THERE WAS A BAND PLAYING
CUBAN MUSIC DOWN BELOW
AND MY PARENTS
STARTED TO DANCE
RIGHT THERE
IN THE HOTEL ROOM.
I WENT OVER
TO THE WINDOW
SO THAT I COULD
WATCH THEM DANCE
AND FEEL THE BREEZE
FROM THE OCEAN
ON MY BACK
AT THE SAME TIME.
SOMEHOW--
I DON'T EVEN KNOW
HOW IT HAPPENED--
I FELL OUT THE WINDOW.
I MUST'VE JUST
LEANED BACK AND FALLEN.
I LANDED ON THE--
WHAT'S THE WORD?
--THE AWNING
ONE FLOOR BELOW.
I MEAN, I WAS FINE.
I JUST LAID THERE
FOR A SECOND,
I LOOKED UP
AT THE WINDOW
AND THEN I SLID OFF
AND LANDED
ON THE SIDEWALK.
DO YOU REMEMBER
FEELING FRIGHTENED?
I REMEMBER
AS SOON AS MY FEET
HIT THE SIDEWALK
I STARTED TO BAWL.
THEN I WALKED BACK
INTO THE HOTEL AND
I RODE THE ELEVATOR UP.
I LOOKED
IN THE MIRROR
AND I MADE MYSELF
STOP CRYING.
SO YOU COULD
STOP CRYING,
JUST-- JUST LIKE THAT?
I JUST LOOKED
AT MYSELF AND I SAID,
"APRIL,
YOU HAVE TO STOP,"
AND I DID.
I CAN STILL DO THAT.
WHEN I WALKED BACK
INTO THE ROOM,
MY MOTHER...
HAD HER HEAD
ON MY DAD'S SHOULDER.
THEY WERE STILL DANCING
THEY HADN'T NOTICED
YOU WERE GONE?
NO.
WHY DID YOU
HAVE TO STOP CRYING?
- WHAT?
- I MEAN, YOU WERE
10 YEARS OF AGE,
YOU HAD FALLEN
OUT THE WINDOW.
WHY COULDN'T YOU CRY
TO YOUR MOTHER?
SHE WAS SO HAPPY.
THE WAY SHE HELD
MY FATHER IN THAT ROOM,
THE WAY THEY SWAYED,
MY MOTHER CLOSED
HER EYES AS THEY SWAYED.
MY MOTHER NEVER
CLOSES HER EYES.
- WHY NOT?
- SHE CAN'T TAKE THEM
OFF DANIEL.
I'M NOT
AN EMPATHETIC PERSON.
I'M REALLY NOT.
YOU ASKED ME WHERE
HOME WAS FOR ME.
IT WAS THERE
IN MIAMI. THAT--
THAT'S THE PLACE
I WANT TO GO BACK TO--
THAT ROOM
- WITH MY PARENTS.
- WITHOUT DANIEL.
RIGHT.
DID YOU EVER READ
THAT BOOK "ON THE BEACH"?
IT'S ABOUT
THE NUCLEAR HOLOCAUST
AND THESE PEOPLE ARE
WAITING FOR THE RADIATION
TO REACH AUSTRALIA,
BUT THEY'RE HAPPY.
THEY FALL IN LOVE.
THEY BUY BENCHES
FOR THEIR GARDENS.
THEY DON'T THINK
ABOUT THE FUTURE.
I WAS READING THAT
WHILE WE WERE DOWN THERE.
YOU WERE READING
THAT BOOK AT AGE 10?
I USED TO
BE PRECOCIOUS.
AND THAT'S WHAT
I HAD HOPED WOULD HAPPEN--
A NUCLEAR WAR
WOULD DESTROY
EVERYTHING ELSE
IN THE WORLD,
AND WE COULD JUST
STAY ON THE BEACH.
WE COULDN'T STAY.
WE HAD TO GET BACK.
DANIEL HAD STOPPED EATING,
GONE BACK TO HITTING HIMSELF.
MY GRANDPARENTS CALLED
IN A PANIC.
MY MOTHER WENT
TO THE AIRPORT AND GOT
THE NEXT FLIGHT HOME.
MY DAD AND I DROVE
BACK THAT NIGHT.
DANIEL WOULDN'T
EVEN LOOK AT US.
HE COULDN'T SPEAK.
IT WAS LIKE WE HAD
SET HIM BACK THREE YEARS.
MY MOTHER NEVER FORGAVE
HERSELF FOR THAT TRIP.
APRIL...
YOU ARE
AN EMPATHIC PERSON--
THE WAY YOU TALK
ABOUT YOUR BROTHER,
THE COMPASSION
YOU FEEL FOR HIM.
BUT YOU CAN BE
AN EMPATHIC PERSON
AND STILL FEEL
CONTRADICTORY EMOTIONS,
STILL FEEL ANGER,
STILL FEEL JEALOUSY.
WHY-- WHY WOULD
I BE JEALOUS OF DANIEL?
MAYBE BECAUSE
YOUR MOTHER NEVER
CLOSES HER EYES TO HIM.
DANIEL WAS ALLOWED
TO SHOW YOUR PARENTS
HOW HE WAS FEELING.
WHEN HE GOT UPSET,
HURT OR SCARED,
THEY KNEW IT,
WHEREAS YOU HAD
TO BE PERFECT.
YOU FELL OUT A WINDOW
AND YOUR MOTHER HAD NO IDEA.
YOU CAN'T BLAME HER
FOR THAT.
JESUS, DON'T TALK
ABOUT HER LIKE THAT.
- HOW AM I TALKING ABOUT HER?
- AS IF SHE WAS A BAD MOTHER.
SHE'S A GREAT MOTHER.
SHE GAVE ME
MY CONFIDENCE,
TOLD ME HOW SMART I WAS.
SHE MADE ME FEEL
- LIKE I COULD DO ANYTHING.
- BUT MAYBE AS A CHILD,
YOU TOOK THAT TO MEAN
THAT YOU SHOULDN'T
DEPEND ON HER
THAT YOU SHOULD
TAKE CARE OF IT
ALL ON YOUR OWN.
- I'M NOT GOING TO DO THIS.
- WHAT ARE YOU NOT GOING TO DO?
SLAM MY MOTHER.
SHE MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN PERFECT,
BUT SHE DID HER BEST.
SHE COULD HAVE BEEN
A PROFESSIONAL BALLERINA.
SHE TRAINED AT JUILLIARD,
BUT SHE GAVE ALL OF THAT UP
SO THAT DANIEL COULD
HAVE SOME SEMBLANCE
OF A NORMAL LIFE...
- I UNDERSTAND THAT.
- ...THAT HE COULD
NOT FEEL
LIKE SUCH A FREAK.
SO DON'T SIT THERE
AND TELL ME SHE MADE
ALL THESE MISTAKES.
- I'M NOT. I'M--
- SHE DIDN'T HAVE A CHOICE.
APRIL, I'M NOT ATTACKING
YOUR MOTHER.
I'M JUST TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND
WHY YOU CAN'T TELL HER
THAT YOU'RE SICK.
WELL, HOW MUCH MORE
CAN SHE TAKE?
IT'S NOT YOUR FAULT
THAT SHE HAD TO DEAL
WITH DANIEL.
LATELY DANIEL HAS BEEN
DOING SO MUCH BETTER.
SHE FINALLY HAS
SOME TIME ON HER HANDS.
HE'S LIVING
IN THIS GROUP SITUATION,
HE'S GOT A JOB
AT THE LIBRARY
STACKING BOOKS,
AND SHE HAS STARTED
TO TEACH A DANCE CLASS
FOR LITTLE KIDS.
I WENT TO MEET HER THERE.
SHE IS HAVING SUCH
A GREAT TIME.
I AM NOT GONNA TAKE
THAT AWAY FROM HER.
DO YOU THINK THAT
BEING SICK WILL DO THAT?
SHE WOULD STOP
TEACHING THE CLASS.
SHE'D THINK SHE HAS
TO DROP EVERYTHING
TO TAKE CARE OF ME.
MAYBE THAT'S OKAY
IF SHE DOES.
MAYBE SHE SHOULD STOP
TEACHING FOR A WHILE
TO HELP TAKE CARE
OF YOU FOR A LITTLE BIT.
NO.  NO, SHE IS
FINALLY GETTING THE CHANCE
TO LIVE A LITTLE.  NO.
APRIL, I RESPECT
YOUR WANTING TO
PROTECT YOUR MOTHER,
BUT I THINK
AT A DEEPER LEVEL
YOU'RE ALSO TRYING
TO PROTECT YOURSELF
FROM SEEING
YOUR MOTHER'S
FEAR FOR YOU,
FROM FEELING HOW MUCH
DANGER YOU'RE IN.
YOU SAY THAT
YOU WANT TO PROTECT HER,
BUT SURELY YOU KNOW
THAT IF YOU WERE TO DIE--
IF YOU WERE TO DIE,
SHE WOULD NEVER--
AND I KNOW THIS.
I CAN TELL YOU THIS
AS A FATHER--
IF THAT HAPPENED TO ME,
I WOULD NEVER EVER RECOVER.
LISTEN TO ME.
YOU HAVE TO BEGIN
CHEMO IMMEDIATELY.
I THINK THE REASON
YOU HAVEN'T
IS BECAUSE YOU'RE SCARED
TO GO THROUGH IT ALONE.
IS THERE ANYONE
YOU CAN IMAGINE
YOURSELF TELLING?
ANYONE WHO YOU WOULD WANT
TO BE THERE WITH YOU?
- I CAN'T.
- YOU CAN.
IT'S TOO HORRIBLE.
WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO SAY?
HOW AM I SUPPOSED
TO TELL HER THAT
HER DAUGHTER--
YOU MEAN YOU. YOU.
--THAT I HAVE CANCER?
NO, I CAN'T.
IT'S TOO HORRIBLE.
HORRIBLE AS IT IS,
NOT TELLING HER
IS MORE HORRIBLE.
WHEN YOU SAY IT,
IT MAKES SENSE--
JUST PICK UP THE PHONE
AND TELL HER.
BUT I KNOW THAT
ONCE I LEAVE HERE,
I WON'T BE ABLE TO.
CALL HER
FROM HERE THEN.
- NOW?
- GO AHEAD.
SHE'LL JUST
BE LEAVING FOR WORK.
CAN I--
CAN I USE
YOUR PHONE AGAIN?
OF COURSE.
I PRESUME YOU WANT
THE ROOM AGAIN?
( door opens )
- THANK YOU.
- HOW'D IT GO?
SHE WAS IN THE CAR.
SHE WANTED
TO CALL ME BACK--
IT'S ILLEGAL
TO TALK AND DRIVE
AT THE SAME TIME.
WITH MY DAD IN THE ARMY,
SHE FOLLOWS THE LAW.
YOU CAN STAY HERE
FOR 10 MINUTES
- AND CALL HER BACK.
- NO, I'M SO TIRED.
I'M GONNA TAKE
A NAP AND CALL HER
WHEN I GET UP.
OKAY.
WILL YOU CALL ME AFTER
YOU'VE SPOKEN TO HER?
OKAY.
( theme music playing )